---
Tags: Unused/Races/Elves/Society
---
For the most part Elves seldom operate in terms of export and profit. They lead a sustainable life and focus on developing the arts. They have everything they need and hold enough of a surplus of goods to cover hard times. Most elves feel it is not seem worth the trouble to establish economic ties to a nation that might completely change in a few short decades so seldom seek trade with non elven realms. Elves do not find much need for money and in effect use it only when dealing with non elves, and then only in cases where trade of goods is not sufficient. For this reason the elves do have a minted coinage based on a Silver standard that is fairly equivalent to their non elven trading partners. In addition it is more likely for an elf to use gem stones instead of coins to pay for items in non elven communities as for the most part they really do not have a full understanding of the economies of exchange in regards to currency.

Elven longevity, paired with a culture that celebrates both artistic expression and craftsmanship has resulted in an economy that is less based on the sale of bulk commodities than the creation of added value in processed items. They produce items of very high quality and expense instead of exploiting their forest home as a source of raw materials. For this reason Elves import unprocessed goods relatively cheap--grain, leather, wood, et cetera--and via labor generate added value, then export the result to profit. Given their basically horticultural-plus-foraging economy, Elves generally don't do intensive agricultural, nor heavy industry, so any surplus generated by their own property similarly creates far more revenue with in-house processing. For example, The best grapes in the world might garner a profit of a fistful of coppers per bushel but turn the same bushel into one bottle of elven wine and the return is a fistful of silver. Hence the cluster of elven cottage industries reap a considerable profit especially considering the intangible value of "elven" goods corresponding to a pricing increase. Even mediocre elvish craftsmen can command an above-the-market price.

Elves do export wooden items, but they tend to be higher quality instead of quantity. Trees are plants (albeit long-lived ones) and eventually some trees die or need to be removed to make room for new generations of trees. Or the elves clear out some trees to make the forest thin in some places so light can shine through (often, tress in a forest grow so close together that they block the sun from shining on the plants below so its just trees and dirt or moss. The elves might clear out some trees to let light shine through so their forests also have grass in them.)

Also, due to the long lives of elves, there could be master tree growers who study the trees and grow the best ones to make wooden items with. Elven wood is made from trees that have been carefully tended and bred over centuries to make the perfect items.

Elven exports include things like pottery, artwork, wooden items or weapons, medicine, herbs, seasonings, various wines and spirits, and magic items like ever-burning torches or bags that create food.